where you don't need to be worried about
the deployment pipeline infrastructure,
then you need to think about a manage deployment pipeline.
This is exactly where AWS code pipeline helps.
AWS code pipeline is a fully managed,
continuous delivery service that helps you automate
your release pipelines for fast and reliable
application and infrastructure updates.
and deploy phases of your release process
every time there is a code change based
on the release model you define.
This enables you to rapidly and reliably
deliver features and updates.
code pipeline allows you to integrate third party
developer tools like github or Jenkins
into any stage of your release process with one click.
You can use third party tools for source control,
build, test or deployment.
AWS code pipeline allows you to define
your pipeline structure through a declarative JSON
document as we will see in our course.
Which allows you to specify your release workflow,
any stages, and actions.
These documents enable you to update existing pipelines,
as well as provide starting templates
for creating new pipelines.
Let's look at the code next.
Let's look at what our context is set at first.
Cube ctl config, get contexts.
It's set to docker for desktop,
but in this case because we are deploying
to a Kubernetes cluster and Amazon EKS,
we will switch our context to the EKS cluster.
Copy the context name.
And paste it here, okay.
Now as we talked about code pipeline can be created
using JSON document, so this is the root of our repo,
and if you look at it there's a build spec dot yaml
right in the root of the repo itself.
Now in this we are talking about version first of all,
this is version 0.2, it provide different phases,
so install, prebuild, build, post build,
and there are multiple commands associated with it.
So for example in the install case,
I'm installing the iam authenticator,
kubectl CLI, setting the path,
installing the right packages.
In prebuild, I'm making sure that my manifests
are appropriately prepared with the right image name.
Then in the build phase, of course,
I am building the docker image,
and then finally in the post build stage,
is where I'm actually deploying to Kubernetes
using my downloaded kubectl CLI, okay.
So let's go ahead and create our code pipeline.
Now in order to create the code pipeline,
we will be using a module from EKS workshop.
EKS workshop is a workshop build by Amazon
which allows you to get started with Amazon EKS,
and provides best practices around deploying
your Kubernetes cluster in the cloud.
So we're going to look at the module here.
This is the module that we'll be looking at,
this module provides extensive details
as you can see the workshop itself has plenty of details
about running your Kubernetes cluster in the cloud,
but let's click here to go to the next part
of the module.
When you create a Amazon EKS cluster,
the IAM user entity user, or role,
that creates the cluster is automatically
granted system core and master permission
in the cluster's RBAC configuration.
Now in order to grant additional AWS users or roles,
the ability to interact with your cluster,
you must edit the AWS auth config map.
So let's create the IAM role first,
and then we'll edit the auth map.
So let's go down here, click on this button,
this will copy the command for you.
Now in our case we don't need CD environment,
this is specific to the workshop,
so we will just copy this command.
Copy it here, and in the terminal, paste the command.
And all the commands are executed for us,
it generates a Kubernetes role.
Back in my browser.
Now, let's copy the command for modifying
my AWS auth config map, and this command
can be copied as it is.
Now, the important part here is,
we are patching the auth map
for a particular Kubernetes cluster,
so it's important that your kubectl config
is set correctly.
So paste it here, and this is looking good.
Now, the next step here, the workspace
and in this case we'll be using our own repo,
the simple gridding application that we have been building.
So let's skip this part of the module.
Now we need to generate a github access token,
this will allow code pipeline
to receive call backs from github.
So click on this page here.
You go to personal access token.
And we are going to call this as,
Kubernetes course, give it full access for the repos.
Scroll down.
Click generate token.
Now this shows our generated github token,
it's blurred out for a reason,
but let's copy it here.
And then we can move to the next step.
Click here.
And now we are ready to launch a cloud formation template.
This will generate our code pipeline,
this will generate our code build,
and all the services that are required for it.
So let's click on it here.
Make sure this is in the right region,
US west two, this is exactly where our
Kubernetes cluster has been created as well.
Keep this stack name as it is.
We need a github token,
actually we need a github user first.
Call that as my github user.
And the github token we already copied
from the previous screen.
Paste it here, our github repo is,
lil Kubernetes for Java.
Branch is okay, everything else looks good.
And our EKS cluster of course,
is Kubernetes course.
Click on accept here, because it's going
to create IAM resources.
Because it's going to create AWS resources
using that IAM role, and click on create stack.
And now it's going to show you the progress
as the different resources are being created.
You can click on refresh button here
to see the progress status.
After waiting for about a minute or so,
you can see that the create is complete
for the EKSWS code pipeline.
So now what we can do is we can go to the code pipeline
service from our services panel here.
And we can see there is a code pipeline
that is automatically created for us,
and it says just now.
So click on the code pipeline, and it shows
you a graphical display of different stages,
source, and build.
Source just succeeded, that means
it was able to check out the entire source.
And for the build, we can track
the progress here by clicking on details.
It shows complete progress here,
and if I go down I can say build logs for me.
The most important part here to understand is,
all of this build infrastructure is highly scalable
and running for you in the cloud,
where you can continue to focus
on what your application needs to do.
The whole process could take a few minutes,
but if you wait for some time,
then eventually you will see
that the upload artifacts is success
and is true, what that means is,
eventually we will be able to apply
kubectl apply manifest stand alone
gridding pipeline dot yaml.
This is sort of where our single manifest
with two resources, one deployment,
one service are defined.
And that's the manifest that is using
to deploy the artifacts for the Kubernetes cluster.
So now if I go to the Kubernetes cluster,
and look at what services and deployments are existing.
And as expected, our service, our deployment,
and our pod are existing, and the pod is one of one,
so that's really good.
Now it also has an external IP,
external load balancer because a service type
was load balancer so essentially AWS created
an ELB or an elastic load balancer for you,
and exposed the service on that.
And the port is of course 8080.
So let's try to access this service now.
Let's copy this command here,
and we're going to paste it here.
Now sometimes it could take two to three minutes
for an ELB to be provisioned,
so let's try it and see what it gives us.
Oh, that's exactly the output that we expected.
So now we just saw our Java application,
packaged as a docker container,
deployed as a Kubernetes deployment,
accessed using the Kubernetes service,
deployed using code pipeline, fully managed in the cloud.